All right, so here we go hopefully
your code looks something like this.
Yeah, everyone followed along,
did everyone follow along successfully?
Yeah, can I see some yeses, okay,
I see some heads going up and down.
Okay, so what is collect, this is probably
a lot different than what you're used to.
Of course we need to convert
back into a structure.
So, we're gonna do this
manually right now,
I'm gonna show you how to manually
do a collect, so what it does.
So let's go like this, the first thing I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna drop this collect.
All right, and
then I'm just gonna do this, all right.
Then I'm gonna also drop this type
definition, because it's gonna be wrong.
Right away I've ran into some
sort of weird error, and
if you're following along you probably
ran into the same error as well.
This is the borrow checker,
rearing its ugly head coming up.
And this will make a lot of sense, we're
actually gonna go over this exact problem
here in a little bit, but
this is fantastic that we ran into it.
So I want to take foo, and
I now want to convert it from
an iterator back into a new vector.
So let's go like this, new vector
equals vec bang and I'll do that.
Now of course we need to make things
mutable, so I'm gonna go mute on this and
I'm gonna go up to our iterator and
also type in mute.
Because to be able to call next on
an iterator, you need to be able to mutate
its underlying contents,
how I had that index in the drawing.
Something needs to be able to
update itself, so I'm saying hey,
you are allowed to be updated.
So now I'm gonna go like this,
I'm gonna go while let some, so
here's pattern matching.
We're encountering
an undefined potentially, so
don't worry we'll go over this more.
But I'm gonna go like this,
x equals foo.next,
remember next calls the next
value out of an iterator.
At some point the iterator
will stop producing values,
hence the reason why it
could be an undefined value.
So if I hover over the documentation,
it says it advances the iterator and
returns the next value,
that makes sense, right?
So that's why it's gonna be an option, of
item as opposed to just the item itself.
All right, so now that we've done that,
we have a wild statement that will
run until an undefined is returned,
it's just gonna keep on running
cuz we're pattern matching it out.
It won't be able to pattern match and
none, so therefore,
it will stop being inside that while loop.
So here I can go new vector.push x,
I'm now pushing x into my new vector.
And then down at the print statement,
I can go new vector.
We still have this one problem and
this of course is a Baro checker problem,
I'm gonna give you a brief little
description of what's happening here.
But I want someone to just try to guess,
with the best of your ability based on
this error message, what went wrong here?
It's good just to exercise these muscles.
Well, let me tell you this.
This iterator refers to the vector, right.
It's not the vector itself,
it refers to the vector.
Which means how long does this value live,
who owns this value, nobody does.
It was created temporarily,
we create a reference to it.
And then it went away, and so
now we just have a reference to nothing.
So in the Rust land, you'd have to go
like this, let data = this and data.
So now we have something in which we
said it's gonna live long enough, so
that we can now refer to it for
the rest of our function.
This is a very kind of rusty concept but
I wanted to get it in your head a little
early so that you can kind
of see some of these things.
Because it makes you think of your program
a little bit differently, you start
thinking about how long do my variables
live, because that's very important.
Because if I'm referring to things, and
they stop living, well, what happens,
that memory could be completely different.
You could be referring
to something different.
This week we have these things, this idea
of C-dangling pointers where you're like,
off referring to who knows what and
stuff explodes and it's very terrible.
This is one of those reasons why
it could be terrible, all right.
So I'm gonna move on,
does everyone kinda see how collect works.
So in the sense that you create a vector,
we go through the iterator one at a time,
and we push the map
values into a new vector.
And then that is what collects does,
it's just doing this for us.
It's just not magic anymore,
it's actually pretty simple.
You could do this in TypeScript
pretty easily, all right.
I Yes?
>> So
data now lives on while main is alive.
>> Yes, data now lives for
the duration of main, if you will.
Hopefully that kinda demystifies some
level of what collect does, so instead of
calling collect, we just manually took out
one value at a time out of our iterator.
Put it into a collection and then at
the end we've just performed a collect.
The thing is is most things in programming
aren't magical, if you take a moment
to think about it, you could probably
create most of it pretty easily.
It's just a lot of these convenient
functions, all right, so
you wanna see something pretty dang cool
about collect, that's a little unusual?
Well, have you ever been into a situation,
where you wanna join a bunch of strings?
Well, in JavaScript you just do.join,
right?
Well, we can do the same
thing here with collect.
I called collect, but
I called collect, I'm not in prison.
I'm calling the function collect and
notice that the string is my type,
that was smart enough.
To call the underlying function collect,
on a string to gather all of these
into a string as opposed to a vector.
By simply stating its type
collect behaved differently.
Again, I could do with a hash set,
have you ever had to convert
an array into a hash set?
We'll look at this, you could have
a vector ,turn it into an iterator and
collect it.
And because the type is hash set,
collect is smart enough to then run
the hash set code as
opposed to the vector code.
It's now a hash set, you can do
it with the map long as you have
a tuple coming out of your map or
out of this map.
You can collect it into a hash map.
A hash map is the equivalent
of a map in TypeScript,
they're effectively the same thing.
So look at that,
I am now having a delicious map by using
collect like that's pretty cool, right?
Right, yes thank you, okay.
I wanna see people get excited, okay?
For me, this is really exciting.
By the way this is just an example of
destructuring going on right here,
pretty fantastic.
So what's happening right here for
those that don't know,
we have a vector of string or
string references, right?
The string references
are referring to strings,
that are literally in our program.
So when our program compiles, quote this
quote lives somewhere within the memory
of the binary, so this is called a static
string reference or a static str.
But don't worry about it,
we just say this, there you go.
And then into iterator, so
instead of referring to the vector,
it actually takes the vector and
converts it into an iterator.
So this is how we'd get around that
previous borrow checker problem as well,
if we could convert our data into
an iterator as opposed to referring to it.
I know a little confusing, a numerate
in JavaScript when you do a dot map
your second argument is what index it is.
In rust that doesn't exist because you
didn't tell it, so enumerate makes it so
that the first argument is index,
and the second one is the value.
Kind of cool and so I can say,
hey I actually do want indexes.
So I said, you're an iterator, you're
an iterator vector, give me indexes,
and I'm gonna change you from index
item to item index in the tuple.
Because I want to go from string to
number, not from number to string,
and then I can call collect.
And now we have a HashMap,
look at that it's fantastic.
There's also some,
we're gonna play a little quick game here,
we're gonna see how much you
guys are understanding, okay.
We're gonna do something cool, so
what's this, what is the value of value?
>> 6.
>> Yes, it's a perfect number,
by the way isn't that kinda cool?
One plus two plus three is also
its components and blah, blah, and
adds to itself.
Anyways, so there you go fantastic.
You can take an iterator and instead of
calling collect, you can actually perform
this operation, such as sum, it converted
the entire vector into a value.
What about this one,
what is the value of how many times?
>> Three, wait no, one.
>> Yes, it's one,
we just called count on it.
So we converted it from an iterator, and
just counted how many times it could
call next, and then return that.
So just like collect,
count is almost no different.
All right, what will this print?
Now, this is a lot of craziness going on
here, so you're just gonna have to try and
struggle your way through this, but
what do you think it's gonna print?
>> 9?
>> 5 and 9?
>> 5, 9?
>> Or skipping 2?
>> 5, 9 was the correct answer.
It's gonna skip 1, it's gonna skip 2,
it's gonna take while x is greater than 4,
which is 5, then 9.
Then the next 4 is not greater than 4,
therefore it stops, and
for each will print out each line.
Pretty cool,
right there's a lot of little combinators
you can do with your iterator so long as
you kind of live in this world where
you're making sure you're using iterators.
All of a sudden you have a huge expressive
set of how to work with your iterators.
It's pretty neat though, all right,
last time, what about this one.
What are we gonna get here, for
those that don't know, x modulo 2,
checking for evenness.
>> Either 1 and 3, or 2, or either 1 or 2.
>> It is 1, because remember,
we don't go over indices,
we're going over the values themselves.
So 1 is not even, 2 is even,
3 is not even count.
>> I wasn't sure what the asterisks
might have like, selected for
things that were false or selected for
things that were true, I wasn't sure.
>> So
the asterisk itself is this right here,
is referring to the contents
inside the vector.
That means x is not gonna be an integer,
it's gonna be a reference to an integer.
And since it's also using filter,
filter doesn't consume, so
it's actually a double
reference to an integer.
So by throwing this out here,
since copies implemented blah, blah,
you now have an integer it's beautiful and
now you can compare it to 2.
I know it's a super long winded
way to say it, don't worry.
It becomes very obvious how and
when to do this, the more you use it.
And often, this is just syntax,
I rarely ever do this it's just for this.
This happened so it's a very specific
thing I'm just having to do it.
All right, so you can also create
iterators from other collections,
so I can have a HashMap and call for each.
Now notice that this for each has a much
better definition than my right key than
value it doesn't have to feel great,
anyways so there you go so
I can just say hey map.
Give me a reference iterator, and
I can go over every single value.
Which means I can also skip,
I can take while, I can do skip while,
I can do all the different combinators.
And if you're feeling extra spicy
you can even write your own, and
it'll integrate right into this.
You can also do iterators from hash sets.
And in fact, you can even create your
own iterators if you ever wanted to.
So if you have your struct called to do,
you could actually do a for loop that
would go over each one of them, because
you allowed it to be iterable effectively.
You created an iterator for
it in some implementation, and
we're gonna actually do this so
that's like the end goal of today.
Is to get to the point where we can create
our own iterators, all right yes Mark.
>> Would the borrow checker error on some
of these should we use into inter instead.
>> Well since they're all sing,
so remember that earlier Baro checker
error we had, since these are all
individual you will notice that I don't
hold on to any value it won't drop.
So the duration of this will last for
the duration of all the statements, so
therefore we won't have
any Baro checker problem.
Baro checker only happens,
you could use Intuitor, right?
Intuitor would probably be better,
we'll give a little bit better
explanation of that in a little bit.
Intuitorator returns the iterator as the
item and it now owns the underlying data.
Whereas, Iter doesn't own the underlying
data, it only refers to it so
you don't consume it.
And that becomes much more meaningful,
once you understand value in
the Baro checker cuz you don't
sometimes want to consume your array
every time you create an iterator.
You wanna be able to go through it and
then still have it at the end.
And so, it'll make more sense.